it seems like the more paint jobs that
go through your shop the more work you
make for yourself with all the necessary
cleanup
this kind of mess is a real hassle but
it's been an unavoidable part of the job
until now the 3m paint preparation
system offers a simple solution to this
time consuming mess
this was an eerie of the market that
hadn't changed really for the best part
of 50 years the first things we asked
ourselves were well why happened other
people developed such a product it was
all about how can we innovate how can we
create something new how can we bring
value to the customer we needed to
actually develop our own platform
technology in collaboration with the
process engineering people by
collaborating with some of our
colleagues the intention was to develop
a product that have global appeal the
paint preparation system is a very
simple mixing filtering and spraying
system used by a car repairer to paint a
vehicle the creation of PPS really
addressed several articulated and
unarticulated needs it eliminates the
need for having separate mixing pots on
filters the painter is able to mix the
paint in the same cut if it gets put
onto the spray gun when you've finished
spraying paint you can just remove the
lid and a liner and throw it away and
that has not only taken out a messy
process just reducing the solvent a
75-percent we went out with a number of
sales people to visit customers and
basically asked them three questions one
is which product the years today from 3m
they feel we could improve to which
competitive product do you use that they
prefer to 3m and why and three what job
did the least liked doing and would like
to give up in the day-to-day process and
every month we would get together and we
would screen and review ideas we created
a hopper and we look to all the replies
retired from the end use of customers
sales reps technical service or product
developers we look to ways that we could
direct the product development team and
focus on key dangerous solutions we have
a number of criteria which we like to
ask ourselves about these products the
first one is is it
commercially viable for us to be able to
compete in that market we would have to
bring some innovation to the products
and creativity secondly kind of achieve
at least a million dollars of sales in
the first year and really try to
differentiate us out from the product
the products that existed thirdly can it
be developed in three to five years
there were plenty of barriers that
seemed to appear before us on a regular
basis the collapsible liner we went to
several of the leading thermoforming
companies in Europe and everyone told us
it could not be made most of the film
companies weren't really interested in
working with is rather than just say
Soviet will give up we actually built
the equipment ourselves and we leverage
the expertise of the process technology
group and go sign in to help us
fabricate the equipment that was
required
the chain reaction was really
identifying that there was a an
opportunity for 3m specifically for the
automotive aftermarket division and then
working with colleagues to try and put
together a product design because of the
cross functional team that we have from
people from product development process
engineering marketing sales technical
service we felt that we'd have a real
winner this would be a game-changer it
would revolutionize the industry and we
strongly believe that we had a winner
the development of PPS has changed the
industry phenomenally that benefits the
painter who's actually using it it
improves their working environment by
really reducing the amount of exposure
that they have to the cleaning solvent
they're able to prepare the paints for
spraying ahead of time and then they can
give them to the painter when he's in
the booth and so he can apply the
different coatings in a much more
efficient process that a terrific
opportunity to expand the pimp
reputation system into old markings ten
percent to Penta play today is used in
the car repair industry so there was a
lot of opportunity now to go into
adjacent markets to aerospace to
automotive clothes anything the team
that was working on the product were
very passionate about what it was that
we were trying to achieve PPS the name
of the product actually is similar to
the team it was about people who were
both passion I don't about the solution
this was midnight principles and action
working with a customer identifying them
needs and providing the solution
you